Hello and welcome back to another video and this section on file I know we've seen so far how to read
from files.
Now let's talk about writing to files.
So first thing you should know when we're talking about writing to files we still have to open the file.
So whether the file exists already or not.
We'll talk about both.
You still have to use the open function.
So we open and then read or we open and then right we need to specify the W flag as the second argument.
So we haven't been passing in any flags because the default is R which means read.
So if we don't pass anything in like we did in the last couple of videos we're reading we add a W as
a string to specify We are writing.
So here's our first simple example and I'll just copy this over to my sublime.
Here we are.
So we have our same with open blue.
Stop it.
So we have the same with statement.
We're opening haiku XTi which is a file I have here it's empty at the moment and we're in the same directory.
Otherwise I need to do slash.
I don't know whatever the folder name.
And we pass in W.
So once again we've been doing this so far because we've only been reading W is how we specify We want
to write and we just use as give it the name file and then to write to the file.
We use the right method pass in a string and we'll add that file.
Notice that I also have the newline characters in there just so that we're writing two separate lines.
I'll go ahead and say this go to my terminal and run the file which I called right that p y OK.
So it looks like nothing happened.
But if I now open up that same haiku that textfile.
There we go look at what's been added in there.
OK so I won't go through the entire alternate syntax but remember we can do a separate variable.
File equals open Haikui that Trixy.
I just copied that and then do file right and not do the with.
But then remember we need to do a file that close at the end as well.
OK now let's add to the file.
A lot of different Hi-Q.
OK I updated it.
Here's one more haiku.
What about the older one.
Let's go check it out.
Ominous sounding.
So we're trying to add to that file.
This is here now.
Let's go ahead and rerun my file.
Now if I go to haiku that T.
I don't know if you're able to see that happen very quick but it reloaded the file changed and there's
only three lines in here.
So we didn't add on to the end and preserve what used to be in the file.
All that we did was basically overwrite everything.
So the original haiku is gone and we replaced it with these three lines.
So really important to know that that's how right behaves.
At least when we're working with the WFIU whenever we write to the file the original contents are overwritten.
Before I dive into the different file modes I'll also just highlight that we don't have to have an existing
file to write to.
So let's make let's change this instead of haiku down to 60 or maybe we'll do this on a separate line.
Keep the Hi-Q and just do EHLO well that XTi and then we'll write a single line in here that says Ha
ha and then multiply it by 10000.
OK.
Just like this.
And that file is not created elsewhere about 260 and see all the files I have in this directory.
There is not another well that takes me if I rerun that file.
And if I type of us can see there's now an L O L that t s t file.
So if I open it up every go filled it's completely full of ha ha ha ha ha ha ha
OK.
So the whole point there is just to show you you can write to an existing file or you can write to a
non-interesting file and it will be created for you.